[MUSIC]
So we've seen how we don't just have to
have basis vectors that are our normal 1,0 and
0,1, the so-called natural basis here.
We can have different basis vectors that
redefine how we we move about space.
In this video, what we're going to do is
we are going to define what we mean by
a basis, by a vector space, and
by the term linear independence, which
is going to let us understand how many
dimensions our vector space actually has.
So first let's define
what we mean by a basis.
A basis is a set of n vectors that are not
linear combinations of each other,
which means they're
linearly independent and
that they span the space
that they describe.
The space is then n-dimensional.
The first criteria I can write
down by saying that if they're
linearly independent,
then I can't write any of them by
taking some combination of the others.
For example, if I had a candidate, b3,
it would be linearly dependent
on the basis vectors b1 and b2,
if I could take some combination
of them a1b1s + a2b2s,
where a1 and a2 are numbers,
if I could take a linear
combination of b1 and
b2 like this, and find b3,
then, b3 would be linearly
dependent on b1 and b2.
It wouldn't be an independent vector,
so it's some vector.
I can sketch it out by
doing something like this.
If I've got b1 here, and
say b2 here, if b3, I can find by
some combination of b1 and
b2s, it must lie on the same plane as b1
and b2, all right, the plane of my board.
If b3's actually lying
out of the plane here,
I couldn't make the out-of-plane
component of it using my b1s and b2s.
So b3 would then be linearly
independent of b1 and b2.
This = I couldn't ever make true, and
then b3 would lie outside of the plane.
I'd then have three basis vectors.
Those three would then define a three
dimensional vector space, and
I could get anywhere
in 3D space with them.
And then if I had another basis vector,
b4, that wasn't a linear combination of
b1, b2, and b3, then b4 would then let
me have a four-dimensional space and
so on and so
on to as many dimensions as I like.
Then a vector is in the vector
space spanned by b1 and
b2 if it can be found by a linear
combination of b1s and b2s.
Now, notice what my basis
vectors b don't have to be.
They don't have to be unit vectors,
by which I mean vectors of length 1.
And they don't have to be orthogonal,
at 90 degrees to each other,
normal to each other.
But everything is going to
be much easier if they are.
So if at all possible,
you want to construct what's called
an orthonormal basic vector set
where they're all at 90 degrees to
each other and all of unit length.
Now, let's think about what happens
when we map from one basis to another.
The number line of the axes
of the original grid
then projects down onto the new grid,
like here.
And potentially has different
values on that grid, but
the projection keeps the grid
being evenly spaced.
Therefore, any mapping that we do
from one set of basis vectors,
one coordinate system to another set of
basis vectors, another coordinate system,
keeps the vector space being
a regularly spaced grid, where
our original rules of vector addition and
multiplication by a scaler still work.
It doesn't warp or fold space,
which is what the linear bit in
linear algebra means geometrically.
Things might be stretched or
rotated or inverted, but
everything remains evenly spaced and
linear combinations still work.
Now, when the new basis vectors aren't
orthogonal, then to do the change from one
base to another, we won't just be
able to use the dot product anymore.
We'll have to use matrices instead,
which we'll meet in the next module.
So that's the formal definition
of what we mean by a basis and
by linear independence.
[MUSIC]